# Reading Lots of data over Bluetooth LE

Not a good idea to stream data via BLE. That said, take a look here, for the older way of doing it:

https://github.com/don/rfduino-logreader

And, more recently:

https://interrupt.memfault.com/blog/ble-throughput-primer

The primer suggests we can get a throughput of about 12KB per second.

That means 341 secs  (nearly 6 minutes) for a 4MB file, and we have to be very careful, because the software stack may drop data silently.

Early tests show that RPi 3 B+ supports BLE 4.0, which does not support DLE (data length expansion) this means the MTU (max transmisstion unit) is kept at 20 bytes, which is poor.

**Mitigation: Keep file size to a minimum:**

1. Measure for a maximum period of 1 day:

Measuring at one measurement per second gives us 60 * 60 * 24 = 86400 measurements in a 24 hour period.

2. Change the file format:
   1. Provide a header, describing the data. E.g. 200 bytes
   2. Provide a title per channel. 20 bytes
   3. Provide a channel type byte (float, int) per channel (1 byte)
   4. Encode each channel as 64 bits (8 bytes)
   5. Group all measurements in rows. Each row has a with a time stamp of 64 bits (8 bytes)

Data size (bytes):

C = number of channels

R = data rate (samples per second)

P = period of measurement (seconds)

200 + C(20 + 1) + PR(8C + 8) 

for a 24 hour period, measuring heart rate, skin galvo and PRV as floating-point at the rate of 1 sample per second:

200 + 3(20 +1) + 86400* 1(8*3 + 8) = 200 + 63 + (86400 * 32) = 2765063 bytes = 2700Kb = 2.6Mb

Give a potential data rate of 12 Kb/s, this gives a file upload time of 225s = 3.75 minutes...

**Mitigation: Change streaming technology** Bluetooth Classic?

1. RPi does not support BT classic: https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/79998/are-the-raspberry-pi-actually-capable-of-transferring-files-via-bluetooth-at-25m

2. WiFi direct means we can't communicate with RPi and MS One Drive at the same time.
3. UART: 
   https://github.com/don/cordova-plugin-ble-central/tree/master/examples/redbearlab
   https://github.com/xykox/nrfUART-echo

## Conclusion

Change file format, to minimise file size, and include annotations in same file
Protocol required to read and write to UART.


